COMMITTERS.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. contents:: :local:

Committers and PMC's
====================

This document assumes that you know how Airflow's community work, but you would like to learn more about the rules by which we add new members.

Before reading this document, you should be familiar with `Contributor's guide <https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`__.

Guidelines to become an Airflow Committer
------------------------------------------

Committers are community members who have write access to the project's
repositories, i.e., they can modify the code, documentation, and website by themselves and also
accept other contributions. There is no strict protocol for becoming a committer. Candidates for new
committers are typically people that are active contributors and community members.

Some people might be active in several of those areas and while they might have not enough 'achievements' in any
single one of those, their combined contributions in several areas all count.

As a community, we appreciate contributions to the Airflow codebase, but we also place equal value
on those who help Airflow by improving the community in some way. It is entirely possible to become
a committer (and eventually a PMC member) without ever having to change a single line of code.


Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

General prerequisites that we look for in all candidates:

1.  Consistent contribution over last few months
2.  Visibility on discussions on the dev mailing list, Slack channels or GitHub issues/discussions
3.  Contributions to community health and project's sustainability for the long-term
4.  Understands contributor/committer guidelines:
    `Contributors' Guide <https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`__


Code contribution
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  Makes high-quality commits (especially commit messages), and assess the impact of the changes, including
    upgrade paths or deprecation policies
2.  Testing Release Candidates to help the release cycle
3.  Proposed and led to completion Airflow Improvement Proposal(s)
4.  Demonstrates an understanding of one of the following areas or has displayed a holistic understanding
    of a particular part and made contributions towards a more strategic goal

    - Airflow Core
    - API
    - Docker Image
    - Helm Chart
    - Dev Tools (Breeze / CI)
    - Certain Providers

5.  Has made a significant improvement or added an integration with services/technologies important to the Airflow
    Ecosystem

Community contributions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  Was instrumental in triaging issues
2.  Improved documentation of Airflow in significant way
3.  Lead change and improvements introduction in the "community" processes and tools
4.  Actively spreads the word about Airflow, for example organising Airflow summit, workshops for
    community members, giving and recording talks, writing blogs
5.  Reporting bugs with detailed reproduction steps


Committer Responsibilities
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Committers are more than contributors. While it's important for committers to maintain standing by
committing code, their key role is to build and foster a healthy and active community.
This means that committers should:

* Review PRs in a timely and reliable fashion
* They should also help to actively whittle down the PR backlog
* Answer questions (i.e. on the dev list, in PRs, in GitHub Issues, slack, etc...)
* Take on core changes/bugs/feature requests
* Some changes are important enough that a committer needs to ensure it gets done. This is especially
  the case if no one from the community is taking it on.
* Improve processes and tooling
* Refactoring code


Guidelines for promoting Committers to Airflow PMC
---------------------------------------------------

To become a PMC member the committers should meet all **general prerequisites**.
Apart from that the person should demonstrate distinct **community involvement** or **code contributions**.

Guidelines from ASF are listed at
`ASF: New Candidates for Committership <http://community.apache.org/newcommitter.html#guidelines-for-assessing-new-candidates-for-committership>`__.

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Has been a committer for at least 3 months
* Is still active community member (Visible on mailing list or reviewing PRs at the minimum)

Community involvement
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Visibility on discussions on the dev mailing list
* Spreading the word for "Airflow" either:

  * Talks at meetups, conferences, etc
  * Creating content like videos, blogs, etc

* Growing the community:

  * Mentors new members/contributors
  * Answers users/contributors via GitHub issues, dev list or slack

Code contribution
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Consistent voting on RCs for at least past 3 releases lifecycles
* Engagement in Airflow Improvements Proposals either:

  * Has been actively voting on AIPs
  * Has been proposing and leading their implementation

* Actively involved in code contributions:

  * Code reviews
  * Merging pull requests
  * Fixing bugs and implementing improvements


Only a current PMC member can nominate a current committer to be part of PMC.

If the vote fails or PMC members needs more evidence, then one of the PMC Member (who is not the Proposer)
can become the Mentor and guide the proposed candidates on how they can become a PMC member.

1.  Candidate Proposer

    This is the person who launches the DISCUSS thread & makes the case for a PMC promotion

2.  Candidate Mentor

    If the committee does not have enough information, requires more time, or requires more evidence of
    candidate's eligibility, a mentor, who is not the proposer, is selected to help mentor the candidate
    The mentor should try to remain impartial -- their goal is to provide the missing evidence and to
    try to coach/mentor the candidate to success.

    In order to re-raise a candidate vote, both Proposer and Mentor must be in favor. Again,
    the mentor must try to remain impartial and cannot be the Proposer.


Inactive Committers
-------------------
If you know you are not going to be able to contribute for a long time
(for instance, due to a change of job or circumstances), you should inform the PMC and we will mark you
as "inactive". Inactive committers will be removed from the "roster" on ASF and will no longer have the power
of being a Committer (especially write access to the repos). As merit earned never expires, once you
become active again you can simply email the PMC and ask to be reinstated.

The PMC also can mark committers as inactive after they have not been involved in the community for
more than 12 months.

GitHub configuration for committers
-----------------------------------

To be able to merge PRs, committers have to integrate their GitHub ID with Apache systems. To do that follow steps:

1.  Verify you have a GitHub ID `enabled with 2FA <https://help.github.com/articles/securing-your-account-with-two-factor-authentication-2fa/>`__.
2.  Enter your GitHub ID into your `Apache ID profile <https://id.apache.org/>`__.
3.  Merge your Apache and GitHub accounts using `GitBox (Apache Account Linking utility) <https://gitbox.apache.org/setup/>`__. You should see 3 green checks in GitBox.
4.  Wait at least 30  minutes for an email inviting you to Apache GitHub Organization and accept invitation.
5.  After accepting the GitHub Invitation verify that you are a member of the `Airflow committers team on GitHub <https://github.com/orgs/apache/teams/airflow-committers>`__.

Commit message:

Strenghten a bit and clarify importance of triaging issues (#27262)
Triaging issues is an important part of the work we do. It is crucial
that we respond swiftly and accurately to issues and discussions
created by our users so that they feel welcome and listened to.

By participation in triaging process, contributors might show not
only their willingness of helping other community members, but also
show that they understand various parts of airflow (also that they
are capable of learning it while helping others - which is one of
the best ways to learn parts of Airflow you do not actively
contribute to.

COMMITTERS.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. contents:: :local:

Committers and PMC's
====================

This document assumes that you know how Airflow's community work, but you would like to learn more about the rules by which we add new members.

Before reading this document, you should be familiar with `Contributor's guide <https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`__.

Guidelines to become an Airflow Committer
------------------------------------------

Committers are community members who have write access to the project's
repositories, i.e., they can modify the code, documentation, and website by themselves and also
accept other contributions. There is no strict protocol for becoming a committer. Candidates for new
committers are typically people that are active contributors and community members.

Some people might be active in several of those areas and while they might have not enough 'achievements' in any
single one of those, their combined contributions in several areas all count.

As a community, we appreciate contributions to the Airflow codebase, but we also place equal value
on those who help Airflow by improving the community in some way. It is entirely possible to become
a committer (and eventually a PMC member) without ever having to change a single line of code.


Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

General prerequisites that we look for in all candidates:

1.  Consistent contribution over last few months
2.  Visibility on discussions on the dev mailing list, Slack channels or GitHub issues/discussions
3.  Contributions to community health and project's sustainability for the long-term
4.  Understands contributor/committer guidelines:
    `Contributors' Guide <https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`__


Code contribution
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  Makes high-quality commits (especially commit messages), and assess the impact of the changes, including
    upgrade paths or deprecation policies
2.  Testing Release Candidates to help the release cycle
3.  Proposed and led to completion Airflow Improvement Proposal(s)
4.  Demonstrates an understanding of one of the following areas or has displayed a holistic understanding
    of a particular part and made contributions towards a more strategic goal

    - Airflow Core
    - API
    - Docker Image
    - Helm Chart
    - Dev Tools (Breeze / CI)
    - Certain Providers

5.  Has made a significant improvement or added an integration with services/technologies important to the Airflow
    Ecosystem

Community contributions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  Actively participates in `triaging issues <ISSUE_TRIAGE_PROCESS.rst>`_ showing their understanding
    of various areas of Airflow and willingness to help other community members.
2.  Improves documentation of Airflow in significant way
3.  Leads/implements changes and improvements introduction in the "community" processes and tools
4.  Actively spreads the word about Airflow, for example organising Airflow summit, workshops for
    community members, giving and recording talks, writing blogs
5.  Reporting bugs with detailed reproduction steps


Committer Responsibilities
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Committers are more than contributors. While it's important for committers to maintain standing by
committing code, their key role is to build and foster a healthy and active community.
This means that committers should:

* Review PRs in a timely and reliable fashion
* They should also help to actively whittle down the PR backlog
* Answer questions (i.e. on the dev list, in PRs, in GitHub Issues, slack, etc...)
* Take on core changes/bugs/feature requests
* Some changes are important enough that a committer needs to ensure it gets done. This is especially
  the case if no one from the community is taking it on.
* Improve processes and tooling
* Refactoring code


Guidelines for promoting Committers to Airflow PMC
---------------------------------------------------

To become a PMC member the committers should meet all **general prerequisites**.
Apart from that the person should demonstrate distinct **community involvement** or **code contributions**.

Guidelines from ASF are listed at
`ASF: New Candidates for Committership <http://community.apache.org/newcommitter.html#guidelines-for-assessing-new-candidates-for-committership>`__.

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Has been a committer for at least 3 months
* Is still active community member (Visible on mailing list or reviewing PRs at the minimum)

Community involvement
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Visibility on discussions on the dev mailing list
* Spreading the word for "Airflow" either:

  * Talks at meetups, conferences, etc
  * Creating content like videos, blogs, etc

* Growing the community:

  * Mentors new members/contributors
  * Answers users/contributors via GitHub issues, dev list or slack

Code contribution
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Consistent voting on RCs for at least past 3 releases lifecycles
* Engagement in Airflow Improvements Proposals either:

  * Has been actively voting on AIPs
  * Has been proposing and leading their implementation

* Actively involved in code contributions:

  * Code reviews
  * Merging pull requests
  * Fixing bugs and implementing improvements


Only a current PMC member can nominate a current committer to be part of PMC.

If the vote fails or PMC members needs more evidence, then one of the PMC Member (who is not the Proposer)
can become the Mentor and guide the proposed candidates on how they can become a PMC member.

1.  Candidate Proposer

    This is the person who launches the DISCUSS thread & makes the case for a PMC promotion

2.  Candidate Mentor

    If the committee does not have enough information, requires more time, or requires more evidence of
    candidate's eligibility, a mentor, who is not the proposer, is selected to help mentor the candidate
    The mentor should try to remain impartial -- their goal is to provide the missing evidence and to
    try to coach/mentor the candidate to success.

    In order to re-raise a candidate vote, both Proposer and Mentor must be in favor. Again,
    the mentor must try to remain impartial and cannot be the Proposer.


Inactive Committers
-------------------
If you know you are not going to be able to contribute for a long time
(for instance, due to a change of job or circumstances), you should inform the PMC and we will mark you
as "inactive". Inactive committers will be removed from the "roster" on ASF and will no longer have the power
of being a Committer (especially write access to the repos). As merit earned never expires, once you
become active again you can simply email the PMC and ask to be reinstated.

The PMC also can mark committers as inactive after they have not been involved in the community for
more than 12 months.

GitHub configuration for committers
-----------------------------------

To be able to merge PRs, committers have to integrate their GitHub ID with Apache systems. To do that follow steps:

1.  Verify you have a GitHub ID `enabled with 2FA <https://help.github.com/articles/securing-your-account-with-two-factor-authentication-2fa/>`__.
2.  Enter your GitHub ID into your `Apache ID profile <https://id.apache.org/>`__.
3.  Merge your Apache and GitHub accounts using `GitBox (Apache Account Linking utility) <https://gitbox.apache.org/setup/>`__. You should see 3 green checks in GitBox.
4.  Wait at least 30  minutes for an email inviting you to Apache GitHub Organization and accept invitation.
5.  After accepting the GitHub Invitation verify that you are a member of the `Airflow committers team on GitHub <https://github.com/orgs/apache/teams/airflow-committers>`__.
