docs/apache-airflow/listeners.rst, before:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Listeners
=========

Airflow gives you an option to be notified of events happening in Airflow
by writing listeners. Listeners are powered by `pluggy <https://pluggy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`__

Listener API is meant to be called across all dags, and all operators - in contrast to methods like
``on_success_callback``, ``pre_execute`` and related family which are meant to provide callbacks
for particular dag authors, or operator creators. There is no possibility to listen on events generated
by particular dag.

To include listener in your Airflow installation, include it as a part of an :doc:`Airflow Plugin </plugins>`

|experimental|

Interface
---------

To create a listener you will need to derive the
create python module, import ``airflow.listeners.hookimpl`` and implement the ``hookimpls`` for
events you want to be notified at.

Right now Airflow exposes TaskInstance state change events.
Their specification is defined as ``hookspec`` in ``airflow/listeners/spec.py`` file.

Commit message:

Add DagRun state change to the Listener plugin system(#27113)
This PR expands listeners API to be notified about DagRun state changes.

PR #20443 introduced Listener API to Airflow, enabling users and developers
to write Pluggy plugins. Here the same mechanism is used to provide
notifications about DagRun states - whether DagRun started, succeeded or
failed.

Additionally, this PR adds lifecycle methods for plugins - when Airflow Job - 
whether SchedulerJob, BackfillJob or LocalTaskJob runs, it notifies plugin that it
starts or finishes.

Signed-off-by: Maciej Obuchowski <obuchowski.maciej@gmail.com>

docs/apache-airflow/listeners.rst, after:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Listeners
=========

Airflow gives you an option to be notified of events happening in Airflow
by writing listeners. Listeners are powered by `pluggy <https://pluggy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`__

Right now Airflow exposes few types of events.

Lifecycle events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Those events - ``on_starting`` and ``before_stopping`` allow you to react to
lifecycle to an Airflow ``Job``, like  ``SchedulerJob`` or ``BackfillJob``.

TaskInstance state change events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Those events - ``on_task_instance_running``, ``on_task_instance_success`` and ``on_task_instance_failed``
once ``TaskInstance`` state changes to one of the respective states. This generally happens on ``LocalTaskJob``.

DagRun state change events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Those events - ``on_dag_run_running``, ``on_dag_run_success`` and ``on_dag_run_failed``
once ``DagRun`` state changes to one of the respective states. This generally happens on ``SchedulerJob`` or ``BackfillJob``.

Usage
=====

To create a listener you will need to derive the import
``airflow.listeners.hookimpl`` and implement the ``hookimpls`` for
events you want to be notified at.

Their specification is defined as ``hookspec`` in ``airflow/listeners/spec`` directory.
Your implementation needs to accept the same named parameters as defined in hookspec, or Pluggy will complain about your plugin.
On the other hand, you don't need to implement every method - it's perfectly fine to have a listener that implements just one method, or any subset of methods.

To include listener in your Airflow installation, include it as a part of an :doc:`Airflow Plugin </plugins>`

Listener API is meant to be called across all dags, and all operators - in contrast to methods like
``on_success_callback``, ``pre_execute`` and related family which are meant to provide callbacks
for particular dag authors, or operator creators. There is no possibility to listen on events generated
by particular dag.


|experimental|
