docs/howto/use-alternative-secrets-backend.rst, before:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.


Alternative secrets backend
---------------------------

.. versionadded:: 1.10.10

In addition to retrieving connections & variables from environment variables or the metastore database, you can enable
an alternative secrets backend to retrieve Airflow connections or Airflow variables,
such as :ref:`AWS SSM Parameter Store <ssm_parameter_store_secrets>`,
:ref:`Hashicorp Vault Secrets<hashicorp_vault_secrets>` or you can :ref:`roll your own <roll_your_own_secrets_backend>`.

Search path
^^^^^^^^^^^
When looking up a connection/variable, by default Airflow will search environment variables first and metastore
database second.

If you enable an alternative secrets backend, it will be searched first, followed by environment variables,
then metastore.  This search ordering is not configurable.

.. _secrets_backend_configuration:

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``[secrets]`` section has the following options:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend =
    backend_kwargs =

Set ``backend`` to the fully qualified class name of the backend you want to enable.

You can provide ``backend_kwargs`` with json and it will be passed as kwargs to the ``__init__`` method of
your secrets backend.

.. _local_filesystem_secrets:

Local Filesystem Secrets Backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This backend is especially useful in the following use cases:

* **Development**: It ensures data synchronization between all terminal windows (same as databases),
  and at the same time the values are retained after database restart (same as environment variable)
* **Kubernetes**: It allows you to store secrets in `Kubernetes Secrets <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`__
  or you can synchronize values using the sidecar container and
  `a shared volume <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/communicate-containers-same-pod-shared-volume/>`__

To use variable and connection from local file, specify :py:class:`~airflow.secrets.local_filesystem.LocalFilesystemBackend`
as the ``backend`` in  ``[secrets]`` section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Available parameters to ``backend_kwargs``:

* ``variables_file_path``: File location with variables data.
* ``connections_file_path``: File location with connections data.

Here is a sample configuration:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.secrets.local_filesystem.LocalFilesystemBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"variables_file_path": "/files/var.json", "connections_file_path": "/files/conn.json"}

``JSON``, ``YAML`` and ``.env`` files are supported. All parameters are optional. If the file path is not passed,
the backend returns an empty collection.

Storing and Retrieving Connections
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``connections_file_path`` as ``/files/my_conn.json``, then the backend will read the
file ``/files/my_conn.json`` when it looks for connections.

The file can be defined in ``JSON``, ``YAML`` or ``env`` format. Depending on the format, the data should be saved as a URL or as a connection object.
Any extra json parameters can be provided using keys like ``extra_dejson`` and ``extra``.
The key ``extra_dejson`` can be used to provide parameters as JSON object where as the key ``extra`` can be used in case of a JSON string.
The keys ``extra`` and ``extra_dejson`` are mutually exclusive.

The JSON file must contain an object where the key contains the connection ID and the value contains
the definitions of one or more connections. In this format, the connection can be defined as a URI (string) or JSON object.
The following is a sample JSON file.

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "CONN_A": "mysq://host_a",
        "CONN_B": [
            "mysq://host_a",
            "mysq://host_a"
        ],
        "CONN_C": {
            "conn_type": "scheme",
            "host": "host",
            "schema": "lschema",
            "login": "Login",
            "password": "None",
            "port": "1234"
        }
    }

The YAML file structure is similar to that of a JSON. The key-value pair of connection ID and the definitions of one or more connections.
In this format, the connection can be defined as a URI (string) or JSON object.

.. code-block:: yaml

    CONN_A: 'mysq://host_a'

    CONN_B:
      - 'mysq://host_a'
      - 'mysq://host_b'

    CONN_C:
      conn_type: scheme
      host: host
      schema: lschema
      login: Login
      password: None
      port: 1234
      extra_dejson:
        a: b
        nestedblock_dict:
          x: y

You can also define connections using a ``.env`` file. Then the key is the connection ID, and
the value should describe the connection using the URI. If the connection ID is repeated, all values will
be returned. The following is a sample file.

  .. code-block:: text

    mysql_conn_id=mysql://log:password@13.1.21.1:3306/mysqldbrd
    google_custom_key=google-cloud-platform://?extra__google_cloud_platform__key_path=%2Fkeys%2Fkey.json

Storing and Retrieving Variables
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``variables_file_path`` as ``/files/my_var.json``, then the backend will read the
file ``/files/my_var.json`` when it looks for variables.

The file can be defined in ``JSON``, ``YAML`` or ``env`` format.

The JSON file must contain an object where the key contains the variable key and the value contains
the variable value. The following is a sample JSON file.

  .. code-block:: json

    {
        "VAR_A": "some_value",
        "var_b": "differnet_value"
    }

The YAML file structure is similar to that of JSON, with key containing the variable key and the value containing
the variable value. The following is a sample YAML file.

  .. code-block:: yaml

    VAR_A: some_value
    VAR_B: different_value

You can also define variable using a ``.env`` file. Then the key is the variable key, and variable should
describe the variable value. The following is a sample file.

  .. code-block:: text

    VAR_A=some_value
    var_B=different_value

.. _ssm_parameter_store_secrets:

AWS SSM Parameter Store Secrets Backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable SSM parameter store, specify :py:class:`~airflow.providers.amazon.aws.secrets.systems_manager.SystemsManagerParameterStoreBackend`
as the ``backend`` in  ``[secrets]`` section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Here is a sample configuration:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.amazon.aws.secrets.systems_manager.SystemsManagerParameterStoreBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"connections_prefix": "/airflow/connections", "variables_prefix": "/airflow/variables", "profile_name": "default"}

Storing and Retrieving Connections
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``connections_prefix`` as ``/airflow/connections``, then for a connection id of ``smtp_default``,
you would want to store your connection at ``/airflow/connections/smtp_default``.

Optionally you can supply a profile name to reference aws profile, e.g. defined in ``~/.aws/config``.

The value of the SSM parameter must be the :ref:`connection URI representation <generating_connection_uri>`
of the connection object.

Storing and Retrieving Variables
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``variables_prefix`` as ``/airflow/variables``, then for an Variable key of ``hello``,
you would want to store your Variable at ``/airflow/variables/hello``.

Optionally you can supply a profile name to reference aws profile, e.g. defined in ``~/.aws/config``.

AWS Secrets Manager Backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable Secrets Manager, specify :py:class:`~airflow.providers.amazon.aws.secrets.secrets_manager.SecretsManagerBackend`
as the ``backend`` in  ``[secrets]`` section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Here is a sample configuration:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.amazon.aws.secrets.secrets_manager.SecretsManagerBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"connections_prefix": "airflow/connections", "variables_prefix": "airflow/variables", "profile_name": "default"}

To authenticate you can either supply a profile name to reference aws profile, e.g. defined in ``~/.aws/config`` or set
environment variables like ``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID``, ``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY``.


Storing and Retrieving Connections
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``connections_prefix`` as ``airflow/connections``, then for a connection id of ``smtp_default``,
you would want to store your connection at ``airflow/connections/smtp_default``.

Example:

.. code-block:: bash

    aws secretsmanager put-secret-value --secret-id airflow/connections/smtp_default --secret-string "smtps://user:host@relay.example.com:465"

Verify that you can get the secret:

.. code-block:: console

    ❯ aws secretsmanager get-secret-value --secret-id airflow/connections/smtp_default
    {
        "ARN": "arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-2:314524341751:secret:airflow/connections/smtp_default-7meuul",
        "Name": "airflow/connections/smtp_default",
        "VersionId": "34f90eff-ea21-455a-9c8f-5ee74b21be672",
        "SecretString": "smtps://user:host@relay.example.com:465",
        "VersionStages": [
            "AWSCURRENT"
        ],
        "CreatedDate": "2020-04-08T02:10:35.132000+01:00"
    }

The value of the secret must be the :ref:`connection URI representation <generating_connection_uri>`
of the connection object.

Storing and Retrieving Variables
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``variables_prefix`` as ``airflow/variables``, then for an Variable key of ``hello``,
you would want to store your Variable at ``airflow/variables/hello``.


.. _hashicorp_vault_secrets:

Hashicorp Vault Secrets Backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable Hashicorp vault to retrieve Airflow connection/variable, specify :py:class:`~airflow.providers.hashicorp.secrets.vault.VaultBackend`
as the ``backend`` in  ``[secrets]`` section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Here is a sample configuration:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.hashicorp.secrets.vault.VaultBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"connections_path": "connections", "variables_path": "variables", "mount_point": "airflow", "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8200"}

The default KV version engine is ``2``, pass ``kv_engine_version: 1`` in ``backend_kwargs`` if you use
KV Secrets Engine Version ``1``.

You can also set and pass values to Vault client by setting environment variables. All the
environment variables listed at https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/commands/#environment-variables are supported.

Hence, if you set ``VAULT_ADDR`` environment variable like below, you do not need to pass ``url``
key to ``backend_kwargs``:

.. code-block:: bash

    export VAULT_ADDR="http://127.0.0.1:8200"


Storing and Retrieving Connections
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``connections_path`` as ``connections`` and ``mount_point`` as ``airflow``, then for a connection id of
``smtp_default``, you would want to store your secret as:

.. code-block:: bash

    vault kv put airflow/connections/smtp_default conn_uri=smtps://user:host@relay.example.com:465

Note that the ``Key`` is ``conn_uri``, ``Value`` is ``postgresql://airflow:airflow@host:5432/airflow`` and
``mount_point`` is ``airflow``.

You can make a ``mount_point`` for ``airflow`` as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

    vault secrets enable -path=airflow -version=2 kv

Verify that you can get the secret from ``vault``:

.. code-block:: console

    ❯ vault kv get airflow/connections/smtp_default
    ====== Metadata ======
    Key              Value
    ---              -----
    created_time     2020-03-19T19:17:51.281721Z
    deletion_time    n/a
    destroyed        false
    version          1

    ====== Data ======
    Key         Value
    ---         -----
    conn_uri    smtps://user:host@relay.example.com:465

The value of the Vault key must be the :ref:`connection URI representation <generating_connection_uri>`
of the connection object to get connection.

Storing and Retrieving Variables
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``variables_path`` as ``variables`` and ``mount_point`` as ``airflow``, then for a variable with
``hello`` as key, you would want to store your secret as:

.. code-block:: bash

    vault kv put airflow/variables/hello value=world

Verify that you can get the secret from ``vault``:

.. code-block:: console

    ❯ vault kv get airflow/variables/hello
    ====== Metadata ======
    Key              Value
    ---              -----
    created_time     2020-03-28T02:10:54.301784Z
    deletion_time    n/a
    destroyed        false
    version          1

    ==== Data ====
    Key      Value
    ---      -----
    value    world

Note that the secret ``Key`` is ``value``, and secret ``Value`` is ``world`` and
``mount_point`` is ``airflow``.


.. _secret_manager_backend:

GCP Secret Manager Backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable GCP Secrets Manager to retrieve connection/variables, specify :py:class:`~airflow.providers.google.cloud.secrets.secret_manager.CloudSecretManagerBackend`
as the ``backend`` in  ``[secrets]`` section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Available parameters to ``backend_kwargs``:

* ``connections_prefix``: Specifies the prefix of the secret to read to get Connections.
* ``variables_prefix``: Specifies the prefix of the secret to read to get Variables.
* ``gcp_key_path``: Path to GCP Credential JSON file
* ``gcp_scopes``: Comma-separated string containing GCP scopes
* ``sep``: separator used to concatenate connections_prefix and conn_id. Default: "-"

Note: The full GCP Secrets Manager secret id should follow the pattern "[a-zA-Z0-9-_]".

Here is a sample configuration if you want to just retrieve connections:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.google.cloud.secrets.secret_manager.CloudSecretManagerBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"connections_prefix": "airflow-connections", "sep": "-"}

Here is a sample configuration if you want to just retrieve variables:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.google.cloud.secrets.secret_manager.CloudSecretManagerBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"variables_prefix": "airflow-variables", "sep": "-"}

and if you want to retrieve both Variables and connections use the following sample config:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.google.cloud.secrets.secret_manager.CloudSecretManagerBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"connections_prefix": "airflow-connections", "variables_prefix": "airflow-variables", "sep": "-"}


When ``gcp_key_path`` is not provided, it will use the Application Default Credentials (ADC) to obtain credentials.

.. note::

    For more information about the Application Default Credentials (ADC), see:

      * `google.auth.default <https://google-auth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/google.auth.html#google.auth.default>`__
      * `Setting Up Authentication for Server to Server Production Applications <https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production>`__

The value of the Secrets Manager secret id must be the :ref:`connection URI representation <generating_connection_uri>`
of the connection object.

.. _roll_your_own_secrets_backend:

Roll your own secrets backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A secrets backend is a subclass of :py:class:`airflow.secrets.BaseSecretsBackend` and must implement either
:py:meth:`~airflow.secrets.BaseSecretsBackend.get_connections` or :py:meth:`~airflow.secrets.BaseSecretsBackend.get_conn_uri`.

After writing your backend class, provide the fully qualified class name in the ``backend`` key in the ``[secrets]``
section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Additional arguments to your SecretsBackend can be configured in ``airflow.cfg`` by supplying a JSON string to ``backend_kwargs``, which will be passed to the ``__init__`` of your SecretsBackend.
See :ref:`Configuration <secrets_backend_configuration>` for more details, and :ref:`SSM Parameter Store <ssm_parameter_store_secrets>` for an example.

.. note::

    If you are rolling your own secrets backend, you don't strictly need to use airflow's URI format. But
    doing so makes it easier to switch between environment variables, the metastore, and your secrets backend.

Commit message:

Make Secret Backend docs clearer about Variable & Connection View  (#8913)

docs/howto/use-alternative-secrets-backend.rst, after:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.


Alternative secrets backend
---------------------------

.. versionadded:: 1.10.10

In addition to retrieving connections & variables from environment variables or the metastore database, you can enable
an alternative secrets backend to retrieve Airflow connections or Airflow variables,
such as :ref:`AWS SSM Parameter Store <ssm_parameter_store_secrets>`,
:ref:`Hashicorp Vault Secrets<hashicorp_vault_secrets>` or you can :ref:`roll your own <roll_your_own_secrets_backend>`.

.. note::

    The Airflow UI only shows connections and variables stored in the Metadata DB and not via any other method.
    If you use an alternative secrets backend, check inside your backend to view the values of your variables and connections.

Search path
^^^^^^^^^^^
When looking up a connection/variable, by default Airflow will search environment variables first and metastore
database second.

If you enable an alternative secrets backend, it will be searched first, followed by environment variables,
then metastore.  This search ordering is not configurable.

.. _secrets_backend_configuration:

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``[secrets]`` section has the following options:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend =
    backend_kwargs =

Set ``backend`` to the fully qualified class name of the backend you want to enable.

You can provide ``backend_kwargs`` with json and it will be passed as kwargs to the ``__init__`` method of
your secrets backend.

.. _local_filesystem_secrets:

Local Filesystem Secrets Backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This backend is especially useful in the following use cases:

* **Development**: It ensures data synchronization between all terminal windows (same as databases),
  and at the same time the values are retained after database restart (same as environment variable)
* **Kubernetes**: It allows you to store secrets in `Kubernetes Secrets <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`__
  or you can synchronize values using the sidecar container and
  `a shared volume <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/communicate-containers-same-pod-shared-volume/>`__

To use variable and connection from local file, specify :py:class:`~airflow.secrets.local_filesystem.LocalFilesystemBackend`
as the ``backend`` in  ``[secrets]`` section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Available parameters to ``backend_kwargs``:

* ``variables_file_path``: File location with variables data.
* ``connections_file_path``: File location with connections data.

Here is a sample configuration:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.secrets.local_filesystem.LocalFilesystemBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"variables_file_path": "/files/var.json", "connections_file_path": "/files/conn.json"}

``JSON``, ``YAML`` and ``.env`` files are supported. All parameters are optional. If the file path is not passed,
the backend returns an empty collection.

Storing and Retrieving Connections
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``connections_file_path`` as ``/files/my_conn.json``, then the backend will read the
file ``/files/my_conn.json`` when it looks for connections.

The file can be defined in ``JSON``, ``YAML`` or ``env`` format. Depending on the format, the data should be saved as a URL or as a connection object.
Any extra json parameters can be provided using keys like ``extra_dejson`` and ``extra``.
The key ``extra_dejson`` can be used to provide parameters as JSON object where as the key ``extra`` can be used in case of a JSON string.
The keys ``extra`` and ``extra_dejson`` are mutually exclusive.

The JSON file must contain an object where the key contains the connection ID and the value contains
the definitions of one or more connections. In this format, the connection can be defined as a URI (string) or JSON object.
The following is a sample JSON file.

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "CONN_A": "mysq://host_a",
        "CONN_B": [
            "mysq://host_a",
            "mysq://host_a"
        ],
        "CONN_C": {
            "conn_type": "scheme",
            "host": "host",
            "schema": "lschema",
            "login": "Login",
            "password": "None",
            "port": "1234"
        }
    }

The YAML file structure is similar to that of a JSON. The key-value pair of connection ID and the definitions of one or more connections.
In this format, the connection can be defined as a URI (string) or JSON object.

.. code-block:: yaml

    CONN_A: 'mysq://host_a'

    CONN_B:
      - 'mysq://host_a'
      - 'mysq://host_b'

    CONN_C:
      conn_type: scheme
      host: host
      schema: lschema
      login: Login
      password: None
      port: 1234
      extra_dejson:
        a: b
        nestedblock_dict:
          x: y

You can also define connections using a ``.env`` file. Then the key is the connection ID, and
the value should describe the connection using the URI. If the connection ID is repeated, all values will
be returned. The following is a sample file.

  .. code-block:: text

    mysql_conn_id=mysql://log:password@13.1.21.1:3306/mysqldbrd
    google_custom_key=google-cloud-platform://?extra__google_cloud_platform__key_path=%2Fkeys%2Fkey.json

Storing and Retrieving Variables
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``variables_file_path`` as ``/files/my_var.json``, then the backend will read the
file ``/files/my_var.json`` when it looks for variables.

The file can be defined in ``JSON``, ``YAML`` or ``env`` format.

The JSON file must contain an object where the key contains the variable key and the value contains
the variable value. The following is a sample JSON file.

  .. code-block:: json

    {
        "VAR_A": "some_value",
        "var_b": "differnet_value"
    }

The YAML file structure is similar to that of JSON, with key containing the variable key and the value containing
the variable value. The following is a sample YAML file.

  .. code-block:: yaml

    VAR_A: some_value
    VAR_B: different_value

You can also define variable using a ``.env`` file. Then the key is the variable key, and variable should
describe the variable value. The following is a sample file.

  .. code-block:: text

    VAR_A=some_value
    var_B=different_value

.. _ssm_parameter_store_secrets:

AWS SSM Parameter Store Secrets Backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable SSM parameter store, specify :py:class:`~airflow.providers.amazon.aws.secrets.systems_manager.SystemsManagerParameterStoreBackend`
as the ``backend`` in  ``[secrets]`` section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Here is a sample configuration:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.amazon.aws.secrets.systems_manager.SystemsManagerParameterStoreBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"connections_prefix": "/airflow/connections", "variables_prefix": "/airflow/variables", "profile_name": "default"}

Storing and Retrieving Connections
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``connections_prefix`` as ``/airflow/connections``, then for a connection id of ``smtp_default``,
you would want to store your connection at ``/airflow/connections/smtp_default``.

Optionally you can supply a profile name to reference aws profile, e.g. defined in ``~/.aws/config``.

The value of the SSM parameter must be the :ref:`connection URI representation <generating_connection_uri>`
of the connection object.

Storing and Retrieving Variables
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``variables_prefix`` as ``/airflow/variables``, then for an Variable key of ``hello``,
you would want to store your Variable at ``/airflow/variables/hello``.

Optionally you can supply a profile name to reference aws profile, e.g. defined in ``~/.aws/config``.

AWS Secrets Manager Backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable Secrets Manager, specify :py:class:`~airflow.providers.amazon.aws.secrets.secrets_manager.SecretsManagerBackend`
as the ``backend`` in  ``[secrets]`` section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Here is a sample configuration:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.amazon.aws.secrets.secrets_manager.SecretsManagerBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"connections_prefix": "airflow/connections", "variables_prefix": "airflow/variables", "profile_name": "default"}

To authenticate you can either supply a profile name to reference aws profile, e.g. defined in ``~/.aws/config`` or set
environment variables like ``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID``, ``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY``.


Storing and Retrieving Connections
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``connections_prefix`` as ``airflow/connections``, then for a connection id of ``smtp_default``,
you would want to store your connection at ``airflow/connections/smtp_default``.

Example:

.. code-block:: bash

    aws secretsmanager put-secret-value --secret-id airflow/connections/smtp_default --secret-string "smtps://user:host@relay.example.com:465"

Verify that you can get the secret:

.. code-block:: console

    ❯ aws secretsmanager get-secret-value --secret-id airflow/connections/smtp_default
    {
        "ARN": "arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-2:314524341751:secret:airflow/connections/smtp_default-7meuul",
        "Name": "airflow/connections/smtp_default",
        "VersionId": "34f90eff-ea21-455a-9c8f-5ee74b21be672",
        "SecretString": "smtps://user:host@relay.example.com:465",
        "VersionStages": [
            "AWSCURRENT"
        ],
        "CreatedDate": "2020-04-08T02:10:35.132000+01:00"
    }

The value of the secret must be the :ref:`connection URI representation <generating_connection_uri>`
of the connection object.

Storing and Retrieving Variables
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``variables_prefix`` as ``airflow/variables``, then for an Variable key of ``hello``,
you would want to store your Variable at ``airflow/variables/hello``.


.. _hashicorp_vault_secrets:

Hashicorp Vault Secrets Backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable Hashicorp vault to retrieve Airflow connection/variable, specify :py:class:`~airflow.providers.hashicorp.secrets.vault.VaultBackend`
as the ``backend`` in  ``[secrets]`` section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Here is a sample configuration:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.hashicorp.secrets.vault.VaultBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"connections_path": "connections", "variables_path": "variables", "mount_point": "airflow", "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8200"}

The default KV version engine is ``2``, pass ``kv_engine_version: 1`` in ``backend_kwargs`` if you use
KV Secrets Engine Version ``1``.

You can also set and pass values to Vault client by setting environment variables. All the
environment variables listed at https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/commands/#environment-variables are supported.

Hence, if you set ``VAULT_ADDR`` environment variable like below, you do not need to pass ``url``
key to ``backend_kwargs``:

.. code-block:: bash

    export VAULT_ADDR="http://127.0.0.1:8200"


Storing and Retrieving Connections
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``connections_path`` as ``connections`` and ``mount_point`` as ``airflow``, then for a connection id of
``smtp_default``, you would want to store your secret as:

.. code-block:: bash

    vault kv put airflow/connections/smtp_default conn_uri=smtps://user:host@relay.example.com:465

Note that the ``Key`` is ``conn_uri``, ``Value`` is ``postgresql://airflow:airflow@host:5432/airflow`` and
``mount_point`` is ``airflow``.

You can make a ``mount_point`` for ``airflow`` as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

    vault secrets enable -path=airflow -version=2 kv

Verify that you can get the secret from ``vault``:

.. code-block:: console

    ❯ vault kv get airflow/connections/smtp_default
    ====== Metadata ======
    Key              Value
    ---              -----
    created_time     2020-03-19T19:17:51.281721Z
    deletion_time    n/a
    destroyed        false
    version          1

    ====== Data ======
    Key         Value
    ---         -----
    conn_uri    smtps://user:host@relay.example.com:465

The value of the Vault key must be the :ref:`connection URI representation <generating_connection_uri>`
of the connection object to get connection.

Storing and Retrieving Variables
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you have set ``variables_path`` as ``variables`` and ``mount_point`` as ``airflow``, then for a variable with
``hello`` as key, you would want to store your secret as:

.. code-block:: bash

    vault kv put airflow/variables/hello value=world

Verify that you can get the secret from ``vault``:

.. code-block:: console

    ❯ vault kv get airflow/variables/hello
    ====== Metadata ======
    Key              Value
    ---              -----
    created_time     2020-03-28T02:10:54.301784Z
    deletion_time    n/a
    destroyed        false
    version          1

    ==== Data ====
    Key      Value
    ---      -----
    value    world

Note that the secret ``Key`` is ``value``, and secret ``Value`` is ``world`` and
``mount_point`` is ``airflow``.


.. _secret_manager_backend:

GCP Secret Manager Backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable GCP Secrets Manager to retrieve connection/variables, specify :py:class:`~airflow.providers.google.cloud.secrets.secret_manager.CloudSecretManagerBackend`
as the ``backend`` in  ``[secrets]`` section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Available parameters to ``backend_kwargs``:

* ``connections_prefix``: Specifies the prefix of the secret to read to get Connections.
* ``variables_prefix``: Specifies the prefix of the secret to read to get Variables.
* ``gcp_key_path``: Path to GCP Credential JSON file
* ``gcp_scopes``: Comma-separated string containing GCP scopes
* ``sep``: separator used to concatenate connections_prefix and conn_id. Default: "-"

Note: The full GCP Secrets Manager secret id should follow the pattern "[a-zA-Z0-9-_]".

Here is a sample configuration if you want to just retrieve connections:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.google.cloud.secrets.secret_manager.CloudSecretManagerBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"connections_prefix": "airflow-connections", "sep": "-"}

Here is a sample configuration if you want to just retrieve variables:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.google.cloud.secrets.secret_manager.CloudSecretManagerBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"variables_prefix": "airflow-variables", "sep": "-"}

and if you want to retrieve both Variables and connections use the following sample config:

.. code-block:: ini

    [secrets]
    backend = airflow.providers.google.cloud.secrets.secret_manager.CloudSecretManagerBackend
    backend_kwargs = {"connections_prefix": "airflow-connections", "variables_prefix": "airflow-variables", "sep": "-"}


When ``gcp_key_path`` is not provided, it will use the Application Default Credentials (ADC) to obtain credentials.

.. note::

    For more information about the Application Default Credentials (ADC), see:

      * `google.auth.default <https://google-auth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/google.auth.html#google.auth.default>`__
      * `Setting Up Authentication for Server to Server Production Applications <https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production>`__

The value of the Secrets Manager secret id must be the :ref:`connection URI representation <generating_connection_uri>`
of the connection object.

.. _roll_your_own_secrets_backend:

Roll your own secrets backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A secrets backend is a subclass of :py:class:`airflow.secrets.BaseSecretsBackend` and must implement either
:py:meth:`~airflow.secrets.BaseSecretsBackend.get_connections` or :py:meth:`~airflow.secrets.BaseSecretsBackend.get_conn_uri`.

After writing your backend class, provide the fully qualified class name in the ``backend`` key in the ``[secrets]``
section of ``airflow.cfg``.

Additional arguments to your SecretsBackend can be configured in ``airflow.cfg`` by supplying a JSON string to ``backend_kwargs``, which will be passed to the ``__init__`` of your SecretsBackend.
See :ref:`Configuration <secrets_backend_configuration>` for more details, and :ref:`SSM Parameter Store <ssm_parameter_store_secrets>` for an example.

.. note::

    If you are rolling your own secrets backend, you don't strictly need to use airflow's URI format. But
    doing so makes it easier to switch between environment variables, the metastore, and your secrets backend.
