airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes/README.md, before:

<!--
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 distributed with this work for additional information
 regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
 software distributed under the License is distributed on an
 "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
 KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
 specific language governing permissions and limitations
 under the License.
 -->


# Package apache-airflow-backport-providers-cncf-kubernetes

Release: 2020.10.5

**Table of contents**

- [Backport package](#backport-package)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [PIP requirements](#pip-requirements)
- [Provider class summary](#provider-classes-summary)
    - [Operators](#operators)
        - [New operators](#new-operators)
        - [Moved operators](#moved-operators)
    - [Sensors](#sensors)
        - [New sensors](#new-sensors)
    - [Hooks](#hooks)
        - [New hooks](#new-hooks)
- [Releases](#releases)
    - [Release 2020.10.5](#release-2020105)

## Backport package

This is a backport providers package for `cncf.kubernetes` provider. All classes for this provider package
are in `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` python package.

**Only Python 3.6+ is supported for this backport package.**

While Airflow 1.10.* continues to support Python 2.7+ - you need to upgrade python to 3.6+ if you
want to use this backport package.


## Additional limitations

This provider is only usable with Apache Airflow &gt;= 1.10.12 version due to refactorings implemented in
Apache Airflow 1.10.11 and fixes implemented in 1.10.11. The package has appropriate requirements
set so you should not be able to install it with Apache Airflow &lt; 1.10.12.


## Installation

You can install this package on top of an existing airflow 1.10.* installation via
`pip install apache-airflow-backport-providers-cncf-kubernetes`

## PIP requirements

| PIP package   | Version required   |
|:--------------|:-------------------|
| cryptography  | &gt;=2.0.0            |
| kubernetes    | &gt;=3.0.0            |

# Provider classes summary

In Airflow 2.0, all operators, transfers, hooks, sensors, secrets for the `cncf.kubernetes` provider
are in the `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` package. You can read more about the naming conventions used
in [Naming conventions for provider packages](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst#naming-conventions-for-provider-packages)


## Operators


### New operators

| New Airflow 2.0 operators: `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` package                                                                                              |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [operators.spark_kubernetes.SparkKubernetesOperator](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes/operators/spark_kubernetes.py) |


### Moved operators

| Airflow 2.0 operators: `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` package                                                                                            | Airflow 1.10.* previous location (usually `airflow.contrib`)                                                                                                                |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [operators.kubernetes_pod.KubernetesPodOperator](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes/operators/kubernetes_pod.py) | [contrib.operators.kubernetes_pod_operator.KubernetesPodOperator](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/v1-10-stable/airflow/contrib/operators/kubernetes_pod_operator.py) |


## Sensors


### New sensors

| New Airflow 2.0 sensors: `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` package                                                                                          |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [sensors.spark_kubernetes.SparkKubernetesSensor](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes/sensors/spark_kubernetes.py) |



## Hooks


### New hooks

| New Airflow 2.0 hooks: `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` package                                                                     |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [hooks.kubernetes.KubernetesHook](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes/hooks/kubernetes.py) |




## Releases

### Release 2020.10.5

| Commit                                                                                         | Committed   | Subject                                                                                      |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [ca4238eb4](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ca4238eb4d9a2aef70eb641343f59ee706d27d13) | 2020-10-02  | Fixed month in backport packages to October (#11242)                                         |
| [5220e4c38](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5220e4c3848a2d2c81c266ef939709df9ce581c5) | 2020-10-02  | Prepare Backport release 2020.09.07 (#11238)                                                 |
| [a888198c2](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/a888198c27bcdbc4538c02360c308ffcaca182fa) | 2020-09-27  | Allow overrides for pod_template_file (#11162)                                               |
| [0161b5ea2](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0161b5ea2b805d62a0317e5cab6f797b92c8abf1) | 2020-09-26  | Increasing type coverage for multiple provider (#11159)                                      |
| [e3f96ce7a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e3f96ce7a8ac098aeef5e9930e6de6c428274d57) | 2020-09-24  | Fix incorrect Usage of Optional[bool] (#11138)                                               |
| [f3e87c503](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f3e87c503081a3085dff6c7352640d7f08beb5bc) | 2020-09-22  | Add D202 pydocstyle check (#11032)                                                           |
| [b61225a88](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b61225a8850b20be17842c2428b91d873584c4da) | 2020-09-21  | Add D204 pydocstyle check (#11031)                                                           |
| [cba51d49e](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cba51d49eea6a0563044191c8111978836d697ef) | 2020-09-17  | Simplify the K8sExecutor and K8sPodOperator (#10393)                                         |
| [1294e15d4](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1294e15d44c08498e7f1022fdd6f0bc5e50e533f) | 2020-09-16  | KubernetesPodOperator template fix (#10963)                                                  |
| [5d6d5a2f7](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5d6d5a2f7d330c83297e1dc35728a0ba803aa866) | 2020-09-14  | Allow to specify path to kubeconfig in KubernetesHook (#10453)                               |
| [7edfac957](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/7edfac957bc17c9abcdcfe8d524772bd2783ac5a) | 2020-09-09  | Add connection caching to KubernetesHook (#10447)                                            |
| [9549274d1](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9549274d110f689a0bd709db829a4d69e274eed9) | 2020-09-09  | Upgrade black to 20.8b1 (#10818)                                                             |
| [90c150568](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/90c1505686b063332dba87c0c948a8b29d8fd1d4) | 2020-09-04  | Make grace_period_seconds option on K8sPodOperator (#10727)                                  |
| [338b412c0](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/338b412c04abc3fef8126f9724b448d1a9fd0bbc) | 2020-09-02  | Add on_kill support for the KubernetesPodOperator (#10666)                                   |
| [596bc1337](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/596bc1337988f9377571295ddb748ef8703c19c0) | 2020-08-31  | Adds &#39;cncf.kubernetes&#39; package back to backport provider packages. (#10659)                  |
| [1e5aa4465](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1e5aa4465c5ef8f05745bda64da62fe542f2fe28) | 2020-08-26  | Spark-on-K8S sensor - add driver logs (#10023)                                               |
| [fdd9b6f65](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/fdd9b6f65b608c516b8a062b058972d9a45ec9e3) | 2020-08-25  | Enable Black on Providers Packages (#10543)                                                  |
| [2f2d8dbfa](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2f2d8dbfafefb4be3dd80f22f31c649c8498f148) | 2020-08-25  | Remove all &#34;noinspection&#34; comments native to IntelliJ (#10525)                               |
| [7c206a82a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/7c206a82a6f074abcc4898a005ecd2c84a920054) | 2020-08-22  | Replace assigment with Augmented assignment (#10468)                                         |
| [8cd2be9e1](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8cd2be9e161635480581a0dc723b69ed24166f8d) | 2020-08-11  | Fix KubernetesPodOperator reattachment (#10230)                                              |
| [cdec30125](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cdec3012542b45d23a05f62d69110944ba542e2a) | 2020-08-07  | Add correct signature to all operators and sensors (#10205)                                  |
| [24c8e4c2d](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/24c8e4c2d6e359ecc2c7d6275dccc68de4a82832) | 2020-08-06  | Changes to all the constructors to remove the args argument (#10163)                         |
| [aeea71274](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/aeea71274d4527ff2351102e94aa38bda6099e7f) | 2020-08-02  | Remove `args` parameter from provider operator constructors (#10097)                         |
| [f1fd3e2c4](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f1fd3e2c453ddce3e87ce63787598fea0707ffcf) | 2020-07-31  | Fix typo on reattach property of kubernetespodoperator (#10056)                              |
| [03c435174](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/03c43517445019081c55b4ac5fad3b0debdee336) | 2020-07-31  | Allow `image` in `KubernetesPodOperator` to be templated (#10068)                            |
| [88c160306](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/88c1603060fd484d4145bc253c0dc0e6797e13dd) | 2020-07-31  | Improve docstring note about GKEStartPodOperator on KubernetesPodOperator (#10049)           |
| [7d24b088c](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/7d24b088cd736cfa18f9214e4c9d6ce2d5865f3d) | 2020-07-25  | Stop using start_date in default_args in example_dags (2) (#9985)                            |
| [33f0cd265](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/33f0cd2657b2e77ea3477e0c93f13f1474be628e) | 2020-07-22  | apply_default keeps the function signature for mypy (#9784)                                  |
| [c2db0dfeb](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c2db0dfeb13ee679bf4d7b57874f0fcb39c0f0ed) | 2020-07-22  | More strict rules in mypy (#9705) (#9906)                                                    |
| [719ae2bf6](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/719ae2bf6227894c3e926f717eb4dc669549d615) | 2020-07-22  | Dump Pod as YAML in logs for KubernetesPodOperator (#9895)                                   |
| [840799d55](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/840799d5597f0d005e1deec154f6c95bad6dce61) | 2020-07-20  | Improve KubernetesPodOperator guide (#9079)                                                  |
| [44d4ae809](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/44d4ae809c1e3784ff95b6a5e95113c3412e56b3) | 2020-07-06  | Upgrade to latest pre-commit checks (#9686)                                                  |
| [8bd15ef63](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8bd15ef634cca40f3cf6ca3442262f3e05144512) | 2020-07-01  | Switches to Helm Chart for Kubernetes tests (#9468)                                          |
| [40bf8f28f](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/40bf8f28f97f17f40d993d207ea740eba54593ee) | 2020-06-18  | Detect automatically the lack of reference to the guide in the operator descriptions (#9290) |
| [1d36b0303](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1d36b0303b8632fce6de78ca4e782ae26ee06fea) | 2020-05-23  | Fix references in docs (#8984)                                                               |
| [e742ef7c7](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e742ef7c704c18bf69b7a7235adb7f75e742f902) | 2020-05-23  | Fix typo in test_project_structure (#8978)                                                   |
| [375d1ca22](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/375d1ca229464617780623c61c6e8a1bf570c87f) | 2020-05-19  | Release candidate 2 for backport packages 2020.05.20 (#8898)                                 |
| [12c5e5d8a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/12c5e5d8ae25fa633efe63ccf4db389e2b796d79) | 2020-05-17  | Prepare release candidate for backport packages (#8891)                                      |
| [8985df0bf](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8985df0bfcb5f2b2cd69a21b9814021f9f8ce953) | 2020-05-16  | Monitor pods by labels instead of names (#6377)                                              |
| [f3521fb0e](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f3521fb0e36733d8bd356123e56a453fd37a6dca) | 2020-05-16  | Regenerate readme files for backport package release (#8886)                                 |
| [92585ca4c](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/92585ca4cb375ac879f4ab331b3a063106eb7b92) | 2020-05-15  | Added automated release notes generation for backport operators (#8807)                      |
| [f82ad452b](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f82ad452b0f4ebd1428bc9669641a632dc87bb8c) | 2020-05-15  | Fix KubernetesPodOperator pod name length validation (#8829)                                 |
| [1ccafc617](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1ccafc617c4cb9622e3460ad7c190f3ee67c3b32) | 2020-04-02  | Add spark_kubernetes system test (#7875)                                                     |
| [cd546b664](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cd546b664fa35a2bf85acd77af578c909a327d92) | 2020-03-23  | Add missing call to Super class in &#39;cncf&#39; &amp; &#39;docker&#39; providers (#7825)                       |
| [6c39a3bf9](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6c39a3bf97414ba2438669894db65c36ccbeb61a) | 2020-03-10  | [AIRFLOW-6542] Add spark-on-k8s operator/hook/sensor (#7163)                                 |
| [42eef3821](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/42eef38217e709bc7a7f71bf0286e9e61293a43e) | 2020-03-07  | [AIRFLOW-6877] Add cross-provider dependencies as extras (#7506)                             |
| [3320e432a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3320e432a129476dbc1c55be3b3faa3326a635bc) | 2020-02-24  | [AIRFLOW-6817] Lazy-load `airflow.DAG` to keep user-facing API untouched (#7517)             |
| [0ec277412](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0ec2774120d43fa667a371b384e6006e1d1c7821) | 2020-02-24  | [AIRFLOW-5629] Implement Kubernetes priorityClassName in KubernetesPodOperator (#7395)       |
| [9cbd7de6d](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9cbd7de6d115795aba8bfb8addb060bfdfbdf87b) | 2020-02-18  | [AIRFLOW-6792] Remove _operator/_hook/_sensor in providers package and add tests (#7412)     |
| [967930c0c](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/967930c0cb6e2293f2a49e5c9add5aa1917f3527) | 2020-02-11  | [AIRFLOW-5413] Allow K8S worker pod to be configured from JSON/YAML file (#6230)             |
| [96f834389](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/96f834389e03884025534fabd862155061f53fd0) | 2020-02-03  | [AIRFLOW-6678] Pull event logs from Kubernetes (#7292)                                       |
| [97a429f9d](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/97a429f9d0cf740c5698060ad55f11e93cb57b55) | 2020-02-02  | [AIRFLOW-6714] Remove magic comments about UTF-8 (#7338)                                     |
| [cf141506a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cf141506a25dbba279b85500d781f7e056540721) | 2020-02-02  | [AIRFLOW-6708] Set unique logger names (#7330)                                               |
| [373c6aa4a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/373c6aa4a208284b5ff72987e4bd8f4e2ada1a1b) | 2020-01-30  | [AIRFLOW-6682] Move GCP classes to providers package (#7295)                                 |
| [83c037873](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/83c037873ff694eed67ba8b30f2d9c88b2c7c6f2) | 2020-01-30  | [AIRFLOW-6674] Move example_dags in accordance with AIP-21 (#7287)                           |
| [059eda05f](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/059eda05f82fefce4410f44f761f945a27d83daf) | 2020-01-21  | [AIRFLOW-6610] Move software classes to providers package (#7231)                            |

Commit message:

Added support for provider packages for Airflow 2.0 (#11487)
* Separate changes/readmes for backport and regular providers

We have now separate release notes for backport provider
packages and regular provider packages.

They have different versioning - backport provider
packages with CALVER, regular provider packages with
semver.

* Added support for provider packages for Airflow 2.0

This change consists of the following changes:

* adds provider package support for 2.0
* adds generation of package readme and change notes
* versions are for now hard-coded to 0.0.1 for first release
* adds automated tests for installation of the packages
* rename backport package readmes/changes to BACKPORT_*
* adds regulaar packge readmes/changes
* updates documentation on generating the provider packaes
* adds CI tests for the packages
* maintains backport packages generation with --backports flag

Fixes #11421
Fixes #11424

airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes/README.md, after:

<!--
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 distributed with this work for additional information
 regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
 software distributed under the License is distributed on an
 "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
 KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
 specific language governing permissions and limitations
 under the License.
 -->


# Package apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes

Release: 0.0.1

**Table of contents**

- [Provider package](#provider-package)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [PIP requirements](#pip-requirements)
- [Provider class summary](#provider-classes-summary)
    - [Operators](#operators)
        - [New operators](#new-operators)
        - [Moved operators](#moved-operators)
    - [Sensors](#sensors)
        - [New sensors](#new-sensors)
    - [Hooks](#hooks)
        - [New hooks](#new-hooks)
- [Releases](#releases)
    - [Release 0.0.1](#release-001)

## Provider package

This is a provider package for `cncf.kubernetes` provider. All classes for this provider package
are in `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` python package.


## Additional limitations

This provider is only usable with Apache Airflow &gt;= 1.10.12 version due to refactorings implemented in
Apache Airflow 1.10.11 and fixes implemented in 1.10.11. The package has appropriate requirements
set so you should not be able to install it with Apache Airflow &lt; 1.10.12.


## Installation

You can install this package on top of an existing airflow 2.* installation via
`pip install apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes`

## PIP requirements

| PIP package   | Version required   |
|:--------------|:-------------------|
| cryptography  | &gt;=2.0.0            |
| kubernetes    | &gt;=3.0.0            |

# Provider classes summary

In Airflow 2.0, all operators, transfers, hooks, sensors, secrets for the `cncf.kubernetes` provider
are in the `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` package. You can read more about the naming conventions used
in [Naming conventions for provider packages](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst#naming-conventions-for-provider-packages)


## Operators


### New operators

| New Airflow 2.0 operators: `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` package                                                                                              |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [operators.spark_kubernetes.SparkKubernetesOperator](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes/operators/spark_kubernetes.py) |


### Moved operators

| Airflow 2.0 operators: `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` package                                                                                            | Airflow 1.10.* previous location (usually `airflow.contrib`)                                                                                                                |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [operators.kubernetes_pod.KubernetesPodOperator](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes/operators/kubernetes_pod.py) | [contrib.operators.kubernetes_pod_operator.KubernetesPodOperator](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/v1-10-stable/airflow/contrib/operators/kubernetes_pod_operator.py) |


## Sensors


### New sensors

| New Airflow 2.0 sensors: `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` package                                                                                          |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [sensors.spark_kubernetes.SparkKubernetesSensor](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes/sensors/spark_kubernetes.py) |



## Hooks


### New hooks

| New Airflow 2.0 hooks: `airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes` package                                                                     |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [hooks.kubernetes.KubernetesHook](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes/hooks/kubernetes.py) |




## Releases

### Release 0.0.1

| Commit                                                                                         | Committed   | Subject                                                                                      |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [8640fb6c1](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8640fb6c100a2c6aa231798559ba194331576975) | 2020-10-09  | fix tests (#11368)                                                                           |
| [298052fce](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/298052fcee9d30b1f60b8dc1c9006398cd16645e) | 2020-10-10  | [airflow/providers/cncf/kubernetes] correct hook methods name (#11008)                       |
| [49aad025b](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/49aad025b53211a5815b10aa35f7d7b489cb5316) | 2020-10-09  | Users can specify sub-secrets and paths k8spodop (#11369)                                    |
| [b93b6c5be](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b93b6c5be3ab60960f650d0d4ee6c91271ac7909) | 2020-10-05  | Allow labels in KubernetesPodOperator to be templated (#10796)                               |
| [0a0e1af80](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0a0e1af80038ef89974c3c8444461fe867945daa) | 2020-10-03  | Fix Broken Markdown links in Providers README TOC (#11249)                                   |
| [ca4238eb4](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ca4238eb4d9a2aef70eb641343f59ee706d27d13) | 2020-10-02  | Fixed month in backport packages to October (#11242)                                         |
| [5220e4c38](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5220e4c3848a2d2c81c266ef939709df9ce581c5) | 2020-10-02  | Prepare Backport release 2020.09.07 (#11238)                                                 |
| [a888198c2](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/a888198c27bcdbc4538c02360c308ffcaca182fa) | 2020-09-27  | Allow overrides for pod_template_file (#11162)                                               |
| [0161b5ea2](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0161b5ea2b805d62a0317e5cab6f797b92c8abf1) | 2020-09-26  | Increasing type coverage for multiple provider (#11159)                                      |
| [e3f96ce7a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e3f96ce7a8ac098aeef5e9930e6de6c428274d57) | 2020-09-24  | Fix incorrect Usage of Optional[bool] (#11138)                                               |
| [f3e87c503](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f3e87c503081a3085dff6c7352640d7f08beb5bc) | 2020-09-22  | Add D202 pydocstyle check (#11032)                                                           |
| [b61225a88](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b61225a8850b20be17842c2428b91d873584c4da) | 2020-09-21  | Add D204 pydocstyle check (#11031)                                                           |
| [cba51d49e](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cba51d49eea6a0563044191c8111978836d697ef) | 2020-09-17  | Simplify the K8sExecutor and K8sPodOperator (#10393)                                         |
| [1294e15d4](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1294e15d44c08498e7f1022fdd6f0bc5e50e533f) | 2020-09-16  | KubernetesPodOperator template fix (#10963)                                                  |
| [5d6d5a2f7](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5d6d5a2f7d330c83297e1dc35728a0ba803aa866) | 2020-09-14  | Allow to specify path to kubeconfig in KubernetesHook (#10453)                               |
| [7edfac957](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/7edfac957bc17c9abcdcfe8d524772bd2783ac5a) | 2020-09-09  | Add connection caching to KubernetesHook (#10447)                                            |
| [9549274d1](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9549274d110f689a0bd709db829a4d69e274eed9) | 2020-09-09  | Upgrade black to 20.8b1 (#10818)                                                             |
| [90c150568](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/90c1505686b063332dba87c0c948a8b29d8fd1d4) | 2020-09-04  | Make grace_period_seconds option on K8sPodOperator (#10727)                                  |
| [338b412c0](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/338b412c04abc3fef8126f9724b448d1a9fd0bbc) | 2020-09-02  | Add on_kill support for the KubernetesPodOperator (#10666)                                   |
| [596bc1337](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/596bc1337988f9377571295ddb748ef8703c19c0) | 2020-08-31  | Adds &#39;cncf.kubernetes&#39; package back to backport provider packages. (#10659)                  |
| [1e5aa4465](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1e5aa4465c5ef8f05745bda64da62fe542f2fe28) | 2020-08-26  | Spark-on-K8S sensor - add driver logs (#10023)                                               |
| [fdd9b6f65](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/fdd9b6f65b608c516b8a062b058972d9a45ec9e3) | 2020-08-25  | Enable Black on Providers Packages (#10543)                                                  |
| [2f2d8dbfa](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2f2d8dbfafefb4be3dd80f22f31c649c8498f148) | 2020-08-25  | Remove all &#34;noinspection&#34; comments native to IntelliJ (#10525)                               |
| [7c206a82a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/7c206a82a6f074abcc4898a005ecd2c84a920054) | 2020-08-22  | Replace assigment with Augmented assignment (#10468)                                         |
| [8cd2be9e1](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8cd2be9e161635480581a0dc723b69ed24166f8d) | 2020-08-11  | Fix KubernetesPodOperator reattachment (#10230)                                              |
| [cdec30125](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cdec3012542b45d23a05f62d69110944ba542e2a) | 2020-08-07  | Add correct signature to all operators and sensors (#10205)                                  |
| [24c8e4c2d](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/24c8e4c2d6e359ecc2c7d6275dccc68de4a82832) | 2020-08-06  | Changes to all the constructors to remove the args argument (#10163)                         |
| [aeea71274](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/aeea71274d4527ff2351102e94aa38bda6099e7f) | 2020-08-02  | Remove `args` parameter from provider operator constructors (#10097)                         |
| [f1fd3e2c4](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f1fd3e2c453ddce3e87ce63787598fea0707ffcf) | 2020-07-31  | Fix typo on reattach property of kubernetespodoperator (#10056)                              |
| [03c435174](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/03c43517445019081c55b4ac5fad3b0debdee336) | 2020-07-31  | Allow `image` in `KubernetesPodOperator` to be templated (#10068)                            |
| [88c160306](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/88c1603060fd484d4145bc253c0dc0e6797e13dd) | 2020-07-31  | Improve docstring note about GKEStartPodOperator on KubernetesPodOperator (#10049)           |
| [7d24b088c](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/7d24b088cd736cfa18f9214e4c9d6ce2d5865f3d) | 2020-07-25  | Stop using start_date in default_args in example_dags (2) (#9985)                            |
| [33f0cd265](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/33f0cd2657b2e77ea3477e0c93f13f1474be628e) | 2020-07-22  | apply_default keeps the function signature for mypy (#9784)                                  |
| [c2db0dfeb](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c2db0dfeb13ee679bf4d7b57874f0fcb39c0f0ed) | 2020-07-22  | More strict rules in mypy (#9705) (#9906)                                                    |
| [719ae2bf6](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/719ae2bf6227894c3e926f717eb4dc669549d615) | 2020-07-22  | Dump Pod as YAML in logs for KubernetesPodOperator (#9895)                                   |
| [840799d55](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/840799d5597f0d005e1deec154f6c95bad6dce61) | 2020-07-20  | Improve KubernetesPodOperator guide (#9079)                                                  |
| [44d4ae809](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/44d4ae809c1e3784ff95b6a5e95113c3412e56b3) | 2020-07-06  | Upgrade to latest pre-commit checks (#9686)                                                  |
| [8bd15ef63](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8bd15ef634cca40f3cf6ca3442262f3e05144512) | 2020-07-01  | Switches to Helm Chart for Kubernetes tests (#9468)                                          |
| [40bf8f28f](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/40bf8f28f97f17f40d993d207ea740eba54593ee) | 2020-06-18  | Detect automatically the lack of reference to the guide in the operator descriptions (#9290) |
| [1d36b0303](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1d36b0303b8632fce6de78ca4e782ae26ee06fea) | 2020-05-23  | Fix references in docs (#8984)                                                               |
| [e742ef7c7](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e742ef7c704c18bf69b7a7235adb7f75e742f902) | 2020-05-23  | Fix typo in test_project_structure (#8978)                                                   |
| [375d1ca22](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/375d1ca229464617780623c61c6e8a1bf570c87f) | 2020-05-19  | Release candidate 2 for backport packages 2020.05.20 (#8898)                                 |
| [12c5e5d8a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/12c5e5d8ae25fa633efe63ccf4db389e2b796d79) | 2020-05-17  | Prepare release candidate for backport packages (#8891)                                      |
| [8985df0bf](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8985df0bfcb5f2b2cd69a21b9814021f9f8ce953) | 2020-05-16  | Monitor pods by labels instead of names (#6377)                                              |
| [f3521fb0e](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f3521fb0e36733d8bd356123e56a453fd37a6dca) | 2020-05-16  | Regenerate readme files for backport package release (#8886)                                 |
| [92585ca4c](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/92585ca4cb375ac879f4ab331b3a063106eb7b92) | 2020-05-15  | Added automated release notes generation for backport operators (#8807)                      |
| [f82ad452b](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f82ad452b0f4ebd1428bc9669641a632dc87bb8c) | 2020-05-15  | Fix KubernetesPodOperator pod name length validation (#8829)                                 |
| [1ccafc617](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1ccafc617c4cb9622e3460ad7c190f3ee67c3b32) | 2020-04-02  | Add spark_kubernetes system test (#7875)                                                     |
| [cd546b664](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cd546b664fa35a2bf85acd77af578c909a327d92) | 2020-03-23  | Add missing call to Super class in &#39;cncf&#39; &amp; &#39;docker&#39; providers (#7825)                       |
| [6c39a3bf9](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6c39a3bf97414ba2438669894db65c36ccbeb61a) | 2020-03-10  | [AIRFLOW-6542] Add spark-on-k8s operator/hook/sensor (#7163)                                 |
| [42eef3821](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/42eef38217e709bc7a7f71bf0286e9e61293a43e) | 2020-03-07  | [AIRFLOW-6877] Add cross-provider dependencies as extras (#7506)                             |
| [3320e432a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3320e432a129476dbc1c55be3b3faa3326a635bc) | 2020-02-24  | [AIRFLOW-6817] Lazy-load `airflow.DAG` to keep user-facing API untouched (#7517)             |
| [0ec277412](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0ec2774120d43fa667a371b384e6006e1d1c7821) | 2020-02-24  | [AIRFLOW-5629] Implement Kubernetes priorityClassName in KubernetesPodOperator (#7395)       |
| [9cbd7de6d](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9cbd7de6d115795aba8bfb8addb060bfdfbdf87b) | 2020-02-18  | [AIRFLOW-6792] Remove _operator/_hook/_sensor in providers package and add tests (#7412)     |
| [967930c0c](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/967930c0cb6e2293f2a49e5c9add5aa1917f3527) | 2020-02-11  | [AIRFLOW-5413] Allow K8S worker pod to be configured from JSON/YAML file (#6230)             |
| [96f834389](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/96f834389e03884025534fabd862155061f53fd0) | 2020-02-03  | [AIRFLOW-6678] Pull event logs from Kubernetes (#7292)                                       |
| [97a429f9d](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/97a429f9d0cf740c5698060ad55f11e93cb57b55) | 2020-02-02  | [AIRFLOW-6714] Remove magic comments about UTF-8 (#7338)                                     |
| [cf141506a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cf141506a25dbba279b85500d781f7e056540721) | 2020-02-02  | [AIRFLOW-6708] Set unique logger names (#7330)                                               |
| [373c6aa4a](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/373c6aa4a208284b5ff72987e4bd8f4e2ada1a1b) | 2020-01-30  | [AIRFLOW-6682] Move GCP classes to providers package (#7295)                                 |
| [83c037873](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/83c037873ff694eed67ba8b30f2d9c88b2c7c6f2) | 2020-01-30  | [AIRFLOW-6674] Move example_dags in accordance with AIP-21 (#7287)                           |
| [059eda05f](https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/059eda05f82fefce4410f44f761f945a27d83daf) | 2020-01-21  | [AIRFLOW-6610] Move software classes to providers package (#7231)                            |
