docs/apache-airflow-providers-openfaas/commits.rst, before:


 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.


Package apache-airflow-providers-openfaas
------------------------------------------------------

`OpenFaaS <https://www.openfaas.com/>`__


This is detailed commit list of changes for versions provider package: ``openfaas``.
For high-level changelog, see :doc:`package information including changelog <index>`.



3.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2022-06-07

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
`717a7588bc <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/717a7588bc8170363fea5cb75f17efcf68689619>`_  2022-06-07   ``Update package description to remove double min-airflow specification (#24292)``
`aeabe994b3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/aeabe994b3381d082f75678a159ddbb3cbf6f4d3>`_  2022-06-07   ``Prepare docs for May 2022 provider's release (#24231)``
`027b707d21 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/027b707d215a9ff1151717439790effd44bab508>`_  2022-06-05   ``Add explanatory note for contributors about updating Changelog (#24229)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================

2.0.3
.....

Latest change: 2022-03-22

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==============================================================
`d7dbfb7e26 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d7dbfb7e26a50130d3550e781dc71a5fbcaeb3d2>`_  2022-03-22   ``Add documentation for bugfix release of Providers (#22383)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==============================================================

2.0.2
.....

Latest change: 2022-03-14

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================
`16adc035b1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/16adc035b1ecdf533f44fbb3e32bea972127bb71>`_  2022-03-14   ``Add documentation for Classifier release for March 2022 (#22226)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================

2.0.1
.....

Latest change: 2022-03-07

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==========================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==========================================================================
`f5b96315fe <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f5b96315fe65b99c0e2542831ff73a3406c4232d>`_  2022-03-07   ``Add documentation for Feb Providers release (#22056)``
`d94fa37830 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d94fa378305957358b910cfb1fe7cb14bc793804>`_  2022-02-08   ``Fixed changelog for January 2022 (delayed) provider's release (#21439)``
`6c3a67d4fc <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6c3a67d4fccafe4ab6cd9ec8c7bacf2677f17038>`_  2022-02-05   ``Add documentation for January 2021 providers release (#21257)``
`602abe8394 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/602abe8394fafe7de54df7e73af56de848cdf617>`_  2022-01-20   ``Remove ':type' lines now sphinx-autoapi supports typehints (#20951)``
`f77417eb0d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f77417eb0d3f12e4849d80645325c02a48829278>`_  2021-12-31   ``Fix K8S changelog to be PyPI-compatible (#20614)``
`97496ba2b4 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/97496ba2b41063fa24393c58c5c648a0cdb5a7f8>`_  2021-12-31   ``Update documentation for provider December 2021 release (#20523)``
`853576d901 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/853576d9019d2aca8de1d9c587c883dcbe95b46a>`_  2021-11-30   ``Update documentation for November 2021 provider's release (#19882)``
`d9567eb106 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d9567eb106929b21329c01171fd398fbef2dc6c6>`_  2021-10-29   ``Prepare documentation for October Provider's release (#19321)``
`2a6cadbd58 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2a6cadbd587bc20ebb36625f43b692671b9cd385>`_  2021-10-06   ``Small improvements for Airflow UI (#18715)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==========================================================================

2.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2021-06-18

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`bbc627a3da <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/bbc627a3dab17ba4cf920dd1a26dbed6f5cebfd1>`_  2021-06-18   ``Prepares documentation for rc2 release of Providers (#16501)``
`cbf8001d76 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cbf8001d7630530773f623a786f9eb319783b33c>`_  2021-06-16   ``Synchronizes updated changelog after buggfix release (#16464)``
`1fba5402bb <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1fba5402bb14b3ffa6429fdc683121935f88472f>`_  2021-06-15   ``More documentation update for June providers release (#16405)``
`9c94b72d44 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9c94b72d440b18a9e42123d20d48b951712038f9>`_  2021-06-07   ``Updated documentation for June 2021 provider release (#16294)``
`807ad32ce5 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/807ad32ce59e001cb3532d98a05fa7d0d7fabb95>`_  2021-05-01   ``Prepares provider release after PIP 21 compatibility (#15576)``
`40a2476a5d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/40a2476a5db14ee26b5108d72635da116eab720b>`_  2021-04-28   ``Adds interactivity when generating provider documentation. (#15518)``
`68e4c4dcb0 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/68e4c4dcb0416eb51a7011a3bb040f1e23d7bba8>`_  2021-03-20   ``Remove Backport Providers (#14886)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.1.1
.....

Latest change: 2021-02-27

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`589d6dec92 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/589d6dec922565897785bcbc5ac6bb3b973d7f5d>`_  2021-02-27   ``Prepare to release the next wave of providers: (#14487)``
`10343ec29f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/10343ec29f8f0abc5b932ba26faf49bc63c6bcda>`_  2021-02-05   ``Corrections in docs and tools after releasing provider RCs (#14082)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.1.0
.....

Latest change: 2021-02-04

=================================================================================================  ===========  ========================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ========================================================
`88bdcfa0df <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/88bdcfa0df5bcb4c489486e05826544b428c8f43>`_  2021-02-04   ``Prepare to release a new wave of providers. (#14013)``
`ac2f72c98d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ac2f72c98dc0821b33721054588adbf2bb53bb0b>`_  2021-02-01   ``Implement provider versioning tools (#13767)``
`3fd5ef3555 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3fd5ef355556cf0ad7896bb570bbe4b2eabbf46e>`_  2021-01-21   ``Add missing logos for integrations (#13717)``
`abf34b8aba <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/abf34b8aba33db4e751db44194429aeb2e8791c0>`_  2021-01-01   ``Kuba openfaas sync call (#13356)``
`295d66f914 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/295d66f91446a69610576d040ba687b38f1c5d0a>`_  2020-12-30   ``Fix Grammar in PIP warning (#13380)``
`6cf76d7ac0 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6cf76d7ac01270930de7f105fb26428763ee1d4e>`_  2020-12-18   ``Fix typo in pip upgrade command :( (#13148)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ========================================================

1.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2020-12-09

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
`32971a1a2d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/32971a1a2de1db0b4f7442ed26facdf8d3b7a36f>`_  2020-12-09   ``Updates providers versions to 1.0.0 (#12955)``
`b40dffa085 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b40dffa08547b610162f8cacfa75847f3c4ca364>`_  2020-12-08   ``Rename remaing modules to match AIP-21 (#12917)``
`c34ef853c8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c34ef853c890e08f5468183c03dc8f3f3ce84af2>`_  2020-11-20   ``Separate out documentation building per provider  (#12444)``
`0080354502 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/00803545023b096b8db4fbd6eb473843096d7ce4>`_  2020-11-18   ``Update provider READMEs for 1.0.0b2 batch release (#12449)``
`ae7cb4a1e2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ae7cb4a1e2a96351f1976cf5832615e24863e05d>`_  2020-11-17   ``Update wrong commit hash in backport provider changes (#12390)``
`6889a333cf <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6889a333cff001727eb0a66e375544a28c9a5f03>`_  2020-11-15   ``Improvements for operators and hooks ref docs (#12366)``
`7825e8f590 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/7825e8f59034645ab3247229be83a3aa90baece1>`_  2020-11-13   ``Docs installation improvements (#12304)``
`85a18e13d9 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/85a18e13d9dec84275283ff69e34704b60d54a75>`_  2020-11-09   ``Point at pypi project pages for cross-dependency of provider packages (#12212)``
`59eb5de78c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/59eb5de78c70ee9c7ae6e4cba5c7a2babb8103ca>`_  2020-11-09   ``Update provider READMEs for up-coming 1.0.0beta1 releases (#12206)``
`b2a28d1590 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b2a28d1590410630d66966aa1f2b2a049a8c3b32>`_  2020-11-09   ``Moves provider packages scripts to dev (#12082)``
`4e8f9cc8d0 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/4e8f9cc8d02b29c325b8a5a76b4837671bdf5f68>`_  2020-11-03   ``Enable Black - Python Auto Formmatter (#9550)``
`5a439e84eb <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5a439e84eb6c0544dc6c3d6a9f4ceeb2172cd5d0>`_  2020-10-26   ``Prepare providers release 0.0.2a1 (#11855)``
`872b1566a1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/872b1566a11cb73297e657ff325161721b296574>`_  2020-10-25   ``Generated backport providers readmes/setup for 2020.10.29 (#11826)``
`349b0811c3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/349b0811c3022605426ba57d30936240a7c2848a>`_  2020-10-20   ``Add D200 pydocstyle check (#11688)``
`16e7129719 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/16e7129719f1c0940aef2a93bed81368e997a746>`_  2020-10-13   ``Added support for provider packages for Airflow 2.0 (#11487)``
`0a0e1af800 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0a0e1af80038ef89974c3c8444461fe867945daa>`_  2020-10-03   ``Fix Broken Markdown links in Providers README TOC (#11249)``
`ca4238eb4d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ca4238eb4d9a2aef70eb641343f59ee706d27d13>`_  2020-10-02   ``Fixed month in backport packages to October (#11242)``
`5220e4c384 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5220e4c3848a2d2c81c266ef939709df9ce581c5>`_  2020-10-02   ``Prepare Backport release 2020.09.07 (#11238)``
`fdd9b6f65b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/fdd9b6f65b608c516b8a062b058972d9a45ec9e3>`_  2020-08-25   ``Enable Black on Providers Packages (#10543)``
`3696c34c28 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3696c34c28c6bc7b442deab999d9ecba24ed0e34>`_  2020-08-24   ``Fix typo in the word "release" (#10528)``
`ee7ca128a1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ee7ca128a17937313566f2badb6cc569c614db94>`_  2020-08-22   ``Fix broken Markdown refernces in Providers README (#10483)``
`fc8d38d5f2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/fc8d38d5f22a59db08d845de55e65e818f3be4dc>`_  2020-07-20   ``improve typing for openfaas provider (#9883)``
`d0e7db4024 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d0e7db4024806af35e3c9a2cae460fdeedd4d2ec>`_  2020-06-19   ``Fixed release number for fresh release (#9408)``
`12af6a0800 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/12af6a08009b8776e00d8a0aab92363eb8c4e8b1>`_  2020-06-19   ``Final cleanup for 2020.6.23rc1 release preparation (#9404)``
`c7e5bce57f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c7e5bce57fe7f51cefce4f8a41ce408ac5675d13>`_  2020-06-19   ``Prepare backport release candidate for 2020.6.23rc1 (#9370)``
`f6bd817a3a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f6bd817a3aac0a16430fc2e3d59c1f17a69a15ac>`_  2020-06-16   ``Introduce 'transfers' packages (#9320)``
`0b0e4f7a4c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0b0e4f7a4cceff3efe15161fb40b984782760a34>`_  2020-05-26   ``Preparing for RC3 relase of backports (#9026)``
`00642a46d0 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/00642a46d019870c4decb3d0e47c01d6a25cb88c>`_  2020-05-26   ``Fixed name of 20 remaining wrongly named operators. (#8994)``
`375d1ca229 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/375d1ca229464617780623c61c6e8a1bf570c87f>`_  2020-05-19   ``Release candidate 2 for backport packages 2020.05.20 (#8898)``
`12c5e5d8ae <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/12c5e5d8ae25fa633efe63ccf4db389e2b796d79>`_  2020-05-17   ``Prepare release candidate for backport packages (#8891)``
`f3521fb0e3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f3521fb0e36733d8bd356123e56a453fd37a6dca>`_  2020-05-16   ``Regenerate readme files for backport package release (#8886)``
`92585ca4cb <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/92585ca4cb375ac879f4ab331b3a063106eb7b92>`_  2020-05-15   ``Added automated release notes generation for backport operators (#8807)``
`4bde99f132 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/4bde99f1323d72f6c84c1548079d5e98fc0a2a9a>`_  2020-03-23   ``Make airflow/providers pylint compatible (#7802)``
`05443c6dc8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/05443c6dc8100e791446bbcc0df04de6e34017bb>`_  2020-03-23   ``Add missing call to Super class in remaining providers (#7828)``
`5f784ae5c0 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5f784ae5c0e629ebe117874029b4a9d789587be0>`_  2020-03-14   ``[AIRFLOW-7061] Rename openfass to openfaas (#7721)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================

Commit message:

pRepare docs for November 2022 wave of Providers (#27613)

docs/apache-airflow-providers-openfaas/commits.rst, after:


 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.


Package apache-airflow-providers-openfaas
------------------------------------------------------

`OpenFaaS <https://www.openfaas.com/>`__


This is detailed commit list of changes for versions provider package: ``openfaas``.
For high-level changelog, see :doc:`package information including changelog <index>`.



3.1.0
.....

Latest change: 2022-10-24

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================
`78b8ea2f22 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/78b8ea2f22239db3ef9976301234a66e50b47a94>`_  2022-10-24   ``Move min airflow version to 2.3.0 for all providers (#27196)``
`2a34dc9e84 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2a34dc9e8470285b0ed2db71109ef4265e29688b>`_  2022-10-23   ``Enable string normalization in python formatting - providers (#27205)``
`f8db64c35c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f8db64c35c8589840591021a48901577cff39c07>`_  2022-09-28   ``Update docs for September Provider's release (#26731)``
`06acf40a43 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/06acf40a4337759797f666d5bb27a5a393b74fed>`_  2022-09-13   ``Apply PEP-563 (Postponed Evaluation of Annotations) to non-core airflow (#26289)``
`e5ac6c7cfb <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e5ac6c7cfb189c33e3b247f7d5aec59fe5e89a00>`_  2022-08-10   ``Prepare docs for new providers release (August 2022) (#25618)``
`d2459a241b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d2459a241b54d596ebdb9d81637400279fff4f2d>`_  2022-07-13   ``Add documentation for July 2022 Provider's release (#25030)``
`0de31bd73a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0de31bd73a8f41dded2907f0dee59dfa6c1ed7a1>`_  2022-06-29   ``Move provider dependencies to inside provider folders (#24672)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================

3.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2022-06-09

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
`dcdcf3a2b8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/dcdcf3a2b8054fa727efb4cd79d38d2c9c7e1bd5>`_  2022-06-09   ``Update release notes for RC2 release of Providers for May 2022 (#24307)``
`717a7588bc <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/717a7588bc8170363fea5cb75f17efcf68689619>`_  2022-06-07   ``Update package description to remove double min-airflow specification (#24292)``
`aeabe994b3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/aeabe994b3381d082f75678a159ddbb3cbf6f4d3>`_  2022-06-07   ``Prepare docs for May 2022 provider's release (#24231)``
`027b707d21 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/027b707d215a9ff1151717439790effd44bab508>`_  2022-06-05   ``Add explanatory note for contributors about updating Changelog (#24229)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================

2.0.3
.....

Latest change: 2022-03-22

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==============================================================
`d7dbfb7e26 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d7dbfb7e26a50130d3550e781dc71a5fbcaeb3d2>`_  2022-03-22   ``Add documentation for bugfix release of Providers (#22383)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==============================================================

2.0.2
.....

Latest change: 2022-03-14

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================
`16adc035b1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/16adc035b1ecdf533f44fbb3e32bea972127bb71>`_  2022-03-14   ``Add documentation for Classifier release for March 2022 (#22226)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================

2.0.1
.....

Latest change: 2022-03-07

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==========================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==========================================================================
`f5b96315fe <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f5b96315fe65b99c0e2542831ff73a3406c4232d>`_  2022-03-07   ``Add documentation for Feb Providers release (#22056)``
`d94fa37830 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d94fa378305957358b910cfb1fe7cb14bc793804>`_  2022-02-08   ``Fixed changelog for January 2022 (delayed) provider's release (#21439)``
`6c3a67d4fc <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6c3a67d4fccafe4ab6cd9ec8c7bacf2677f17038>`_  2022-02-05   ``Add documentation for January 2021 providers release (#21257)``
`602abe8394 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/602abe8394fafe7de54df7e73af56de848cdf617>`_  2022-01-20   ``Remove ':type' lines now sphinx-autoapi supports typehints (#20951)``
`f77417eb0d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f77417eb0d3f12e4849d80645325c02a48829278>`_  2021-12-31   ``Fix K8S changelog to be PyPI-compatible (#20614)``
`97496ba2b4 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/97496ba2b41063fa24393c58c5c648a0cdb5a7f8>`_  2021-12-31   ``Update documentation for provider December 2021 release (#20523)``
`853576d901 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/853576d9019d2aca8de1d9c587c883dcbe95b46a>`_  2021-11-30   ``Update documentation for November 2021 provider's release (#19882)``
`d9567eb106 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d9567eb106929b21329c01171fd398fbef2dc6c6>`_  2021-10-29   ``Prepare documentation for October Provider's release (#19321)``
`2a6cadbd58 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2a6cadbd587bc20ebb36625f43b692671b9cd385>`_  2021-10-06   ``Small improvements for Airflow UI (#18715)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==========================================================================

2.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2021-06-18

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`bbc627a3da <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/bbc627a3dab17ba4cf920dd1a26dbed6f5cebfd1>`_  2021-06-18   ``Prepares documentation for rc2 release of Providers (#16501)``
`cbf8001d76 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cbf8001d7630530773f623a786f9eb319783b33c>`_  2021-06-16   ``Synchronizes updated changelog after buggfix release (#16464)``
`1fba5402bb <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1fba5402bb14b3ffa6429fdc683121935f88472f>`_  2021-06-15   ``More documentation update for June providers release (#16405)``
`9c94b72d44 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9c94b72d440b18a9e42123d20d48b951712038f9>`_  2021-06-07   ``Updated documentation for June 2021 provider release (#16294)``
`807ad32ce5 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/807ad32ce59e001cb3532d98a05fa7d0d7fabb95>`_  2021-05-01   ``Prepares provider release after PIP 21 compatibility (#15576)``
`40a2476a5d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/40a2476a5db14ee26b5108d72635da116eab720b>`_  2021-04-28   ``Adds interactivity when generating provider documentation. (#15518)``
`68e4c4dcb0 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/68e4c4dcb0416eb51a7011a3bb040f1e23d7bba8>`_  2021-03-20   ``Remove Backport Providers (#14886)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.1.1
.....

Latest change: 2021-02-27

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`589d6dec92 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/589d6dec922565897785bcbc5ac6bb3b973d7f5d>`_  2021-02-27   ``Prepare to release the next wave of providers: (#14487)``
`10343ec29f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/10343ec29f8f0abc5b932ba26faf49bc63c6bcda>`_  2021-02-05   ``Corrections in docs and tools after releasing provider RCs (#14082)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.1.0
.....

Latest change: 2021-02-04

=================================================================================================  ===========  ========================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ========================================================
`88bdcfa0df <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/88bdcfa0df5bcb4c489486e05826544b428c8f43>`_  2021-02-04   ``Prepare to release a new wave of providers. (#14013)``
`ac2f72c98d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ac2f72c98dc0821b33721054588adbf2bb53bb0b>`_  2021-02-01   ``Implement provider versioning tools (#13767)``
`3fd5ef3555 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3fd5ef355556cf0ad7896bb570bbe4b2eabbf46e>`_  2021-01-21   ``Add missing logos for integrations (#13717)``
`abf34b8aba <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/abf34b8aba33db4e751db44194429aeb2e8791c0>`_  2021-01-01   ``Kuba openfaas sync call (#13356)``
`295d66f914 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/295d66f91446a69610576d040ba687b38f1c5d0a>`_  2020-12-30   ``Fix Grammar in PIP warning (#13380)``
`6cf76d7ac0 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6cf76d7ac01270930de7f105fb26428763ee1d4e>`_  2020-12-18   ``Fix typo in pip upgrade command :( (#13148)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ========================================================

1.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2020-12-09

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
`32971a1a2d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/32971a1a2de1db0b4f7442ed26facdf8d3b7a36f>`_  2020-12-09   ``Updates providers versions to 1.0.0 (#12955)``
`b40dffa085 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b40dffa08547b610162f8cacfa75847f3c4ca364>`_  2020-12-08   ``Rename remaing modules to match AIP-21 (#12917)``
`c34ef853c8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c34ef853c890e08f5468183c03dc8f3f3ce84af2>`_  2020-11-20   ``Separate out documentation building per provider  (#12444)``
`0080354502 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/00803545023b096b8db4fbd6eb473843096d7ce4>`_  2020-11-18   ``Update provider READMEs for 1.0.0b2 batch release (#12449)``
`ae7cb4a1e2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ae7cb4a1e2a96351f1976cf5832615e24863e05d>`_  2020-11-17   ``Update wrong commit hash in backport provider changes (#12390)``
`6889a333cf <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6889a333cff001727eb0a66e375544a28c9a5f03>`_  2020-11-15   ``Improvements for operators and hooks ref docs (#12366)``
`7825e8f590 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/7825e8f59034645ab3247229be83a3aa90baece1>`_  2020-11-13   ``Docs installation improvements (#12304)``
`85a18e13d9 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/85a18e13d9dec84275283ff69e34704b60d54a75>`_  2020-11-09   ``Point at pypi project pages for cross-dependency of provider packages (#12212)``
`59eb5de78c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/59eb5de78c70ee9c7ae6e4cba5c7a2babb8103ca>`_  2020-11-09   ``Update provider READMEs for up-coming 1.0.0beta1 releases (#12206)``
`b2a28d1590 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b2a28d1590410630d66966aa1f2b2a049a8c3b32>`_  2020-11-09   ``Moves provider packages scripts to dev (#12082)``
`4e8f9cc8d0 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/4e8f9cc8d02b29c325b8a5a76b4837671bdf5f68>`_  2020-11-03   ``Enable Black - Python Auto Formmatter (#9550)``
`5a439e84eb <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5a439e84eb6c0544dc6c3d6a9f4ceeb2172cd5d0>`_  2020-10-26   ``Prepare providers release 0.0.2a1 (#11855)``
`872b1566a1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/872b1566a11cb73297e657ff325161721b296574>`_  2020-10-25   ``Generated backport providers readmes/setup for 2020.10.29 (#11826)``
`349b0811c3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/349b0811c3022605426ba57d30936240a7c2848a>`_  2020-10-20   ``Add D200 pydocstyle check (#11688)``
`16e7129719 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/16e7129719f1c0940aef2a93bed81368e997a746>`_  2020-10-13   ``Added support for provider packages for Airflow 2.0 (#11487)``
`0a0e1af800 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0a0e1af80038ef89974c3c8444461fe867945daa>`_  2020-10-03   ``Fix Broken Markdown links in Providers README TOC (#11249)``
`ca4238eb4d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ca4238eb4d9a2aef70eb641343f59ee706d27d13>`_  2020-10-02   ``Fixed month in backport packages to October (#11242)``
`5220e4c384 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5220e4c3848a2d2c81c266ef939709df9ce581c5>`_  2020-10-02   ``Prepare Backport release 2020.09.07 (#11238)``
`fdd9b6f65b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/fdd9b6f65b608c516b8a062b058972d9a45ec9e3>`_  2020-08-25   ``Enable Black on Providers Packages (#10543)``
`3696c34c28 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3696c34c28c6bc7b442deab999d9ecba24ed0e34>`_  2020-08-24   ``Fix typo in the word "release" (#10528)``
`ee7ca128a1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ee7ca128a17937313566f2badb6cc569c614db94>`_  2020-08-22   ``Fix broken Markdown refernces in Providers README (#10483)``
`fc8d38d5f2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/fc8d38d5f22a59db08d845de55e65e818f3be4dc>`_  2020-07-20   ``improve typing for openfaas provider (#9883)``
`d0e7db4024 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d0e7db4024806af35e3c9a2cae460fdeedd4d2ec>`_  2020-06-19   ``Fixed release number for fresh release (#9408)``
`12af6a0800 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/12af6a08009b8776e00d8a0aab92363eb8c4e8b1>`_  2020-06-19   ``Final cleanup for 2020.6.23rc1 release preparation (#9404)``
`c7e5bce57f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c7e5bce57fe7f51cefce4f8a41ce408ac5675d13>`_  2020-06-19   ``Prepare backport release candidate for 2020.6.23rc1 (#9370)``
`f6bd817a3a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f6bd817a3aac0a16430fc2e3d59c1f17a69a15ac>`_  2020-06-16   ``Introduce 'transfers' packages (#9320)``
`0b0e4f7a4c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0b0e4f7a4cceff3efe15161fb40b984782760a34>`_  2020-05-26   ``Preparing for RC3 relase of backports (#9026)``
`00642a46d0 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/00642a46d019870c4decb3d0e47c01d6a25cb88c>`_  2020-05-26   ``Fixed name of 20 remaining wrongly named operators. (#8994)``
`375d1ca229 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/375d1ca229464617780623c61c6e8a1bf570c87f>`_  2020-05-19   ``Release candidate 2 for backport packages 2020.05.20 (#8898)``
`12c5e5d8ae <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/12c5e5d8ae25fa633efe63ccf4db389e2b796d79>`_  2020-05-17   ``Prepare release candidate for backport packages (#8891)``
`f3521fb0e3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f3521fb0e36733d8bd356123e56a453fd37a6dca>`_  2020-05-16   ``Regenerate readme files for backport package release (#8886)``
`92585ca4cb <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/92585ca4cb375ac879f4ab331b3a063106eb7b92>`_  2020-05-15   ``Added automated release notes generation for backport operators (#8807)``
`4bde99f132 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/4bde99f1323d72f6c84c1548079d5e98fc0a2a9a>`_  2020-03-23   ``Make airflow/providers pylint compatible (#7802)``
`05443c6dc8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/05443c6dc8100e791446bbcc0df04de6e34017bb>`_  2020-03-23   ``Add missing call to Super class in remaining providers (#7828)``
`5f784ae5c0 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5f784ae5c0e629ebe117874029b4a9d789587be0>`_  2020-03-14   ``[AIRFLOW-7061] Rename openfass to openfaas (#7721)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
